all right folks welcome back
this is our review and
final
discussion
in the free 2022 ict mentorship for
youtube
so this is june 23rd
and we're looking at the
e-mini s p september contract for 2022
and this is an hourly chart so i'm
cutting right to the chase here
and this morning on twitter i was
looking at
well i was expecting actually a little
bit more volatility
around the fed chair pal speaking
at 10 o'clock in the morning and we
didn't get a whole lot of excitement
but
we did get to see
ict's expectation
fall short
so that's one of the benefits of seeing
it live with me
an expectation an analysis a call a
viewpoint a perspective
opinion
not coming to pass
okay
and
time of day
how i used it
and how you should use it going forward
and also how it kept me from looking at
an incorrect
setup that would otherwise
maybe
a catalyst for you having had a
incorrect
setup this morning and i'll talk about
that in a moment but for now this is the
framework
for today
we had sell side liquidity here the
market dropped down took that sell side
out rallied up
buy side here i was looking for 38.05
level today and this is the reason why
and i was looking at it early on in the
morning
i wanted to see it run up here and hit
that
if it was going to hit
i would have been watching for
a potential short deform
but
it didn't do it so that was my
expectation based on this high back here
we already took sell aside so i was
looking for a little bit deeper run into
this high here
when we just went just above that short
term high
there gave up the ghost and went lower
and i had a trade that got stopped out
plus two points and i'll talk about that
and get into
the lower time time frame
all right so here is the 15 minute time
frame
and usually i have
the charts blank and i'll ask you to
take a look at it i don't want to do
that tonight because i want to get to
the teachings at the end
to kind of like bring this entire
mentorship to a close
the teachings itself will end for this
model in this
lesson okay so technically there's 41
videos that make up this mentorship so
if you take away the introductory video
it's basically what 40
even so that's not bad hopefully you
found it insightful and helpful but
looking at this morning
we had the 10 o'clock pal
event here
and the market started to run up
and we took out the buy side here but
again i was aiming for this this is what
i wanted to see i want to see it run up
here and actually took a long in here i
wanted to see it
run up into that level and i was going
to do a reversal
and it didn't obviously give it to me
so notice the time of day here
this is new york index am session
operating hours or killzone if you want
to call it that
and it's 8 30 in the morning to 11.
now
i can take trades
after 11 o'clock but i want to kind of
like stick to the rules
and
present you opportunities to see where
following the rules you're going to miss
certain opportunities
it's okay it's fine
now you're going to get it wrong
sometimes
you watch me get something wrong today
there was no skin off my back nothing
you know bad happened is i didn't get
what i was looking for
and because it was late in the day
as we'll look at the
lower time frame in a moment but
it ran above the short term by side
liquidity here
i wanted to run up to here
but it broke down and i was telling
myself and also made my views public on
twitter
that i wasn't interested and i wasn't
quite sure what it wanted to do
because it was
approaching that noon hour
and i took a trade
and i was out plus two so in other words
i was just covering expenses basically
and i was wrong on the initial run
so when i have that scenario and it's
off of
a fed chair
or a high impact news event and it
didn't pan out like i was expecting it
to
in my experience it's been better for me
to just move away
and say okay i'm going to close the
computer and i'll come back later on and
see what's going on
and i didn't want to trade any more of
the morning session
leading into noon
so i had waited and i was gonna take a
look at what it did in lunch hour and
then post lunch hour around 1 30 and see
what there was
opportunity to do anything then
but
we have a fair value gap on the
15-minute time frame here
you see that
so the market eventually after running
the bus side here
drew all the way down took out cell side
here overrun this fair value gap here
why did it do that because this is a
larger one so if it's going to go over
top of this one
and trade to the top
of this candle which is the low end of
that fair value gap that's here
that's not noted on shown here
by the
respective candles
it's going to go here
that's also
the high end of the fair value gap here
so it's likely to go over top of this
one and run into this one
okay it does that as we're going into
the noon lunch hour in new york
until one o'clock
where it makes the low of the
session
after closing in the fair value gap
and then the 1 30
to 4
new york local time
that's the pm session new york index pm
session or afternoon session for index
trading
and the market started to create a
willingness to want to go higher
we'll look at a short-term shift in
market structure when we get a lower
time frame
but it draws all the way back up to the
target i was looking for
in the morning
so
the expectation of going to that
specific level
let me explain to you what i was looking
for
i wanted to go above hit that and then
sell off and go down to this area here
for a discount and then create
the run
and then go beyond 3805 that's all i was
really looking for today that's what i
wanted to do but it failed to get to
it fell down into this area here and i
knew once it broke here i don't want to
go short because
i'm going into lunch hour and i was
concerned it was going to consolidate a
lot and then take forever to get down
into and i don't want to hold anything
new into
lunch
so
i'd prefer to see some kind of a
a stop run
in the lunch hour which is what we're
seeing here
it runs down below that and into a fair
value gap deep discount between low
high trades down into it and then
rallies up
this session here we'll look at it
on the five-minute chart
so we can see obviously the initial
poke above here
inside this area i was looking at a two
minute fair value gap i mentioned that
on twitter as it was forming
and it rallied up
and then
once it took the short-term high out
when this was a bold face bullish candle
i was thinking to myself okay it could
expand up in here and i'm watching that
and i had a tweet ready to go i'm gonna
sell short here and look for a run down
into this level here never got it okay
and then some of you probably gonna hear
this and say oh yeah sure you sure you
did i mean it is what it is folks i mean
i was out there without a safety net i
told everyone what i was expecting what
i was looking for it simply didn't pan
out and that's okay
but the market eventually breaks lower
then after we get in to the lunch hour
closing at one o'clock and then
i personally like to wait till 1 30
because it's a little bit more cleaner
price action
the market starts to rally away
drops back down into an order block a
fair value gap on a five-minute chart
then we have a shift in market structure
here on the five-minute chart
creates a small little return to a fair
bag gap there rallies another fair value
it runs into it here rallies and
eventually takes up the short-term high
of the day and then runs to the level i
was drawing your attention to on twitter
all right so here's the five-minute
chart zoomed in with the morning session
you see the run here on the buy side one
more here
and
eventually breaking down
displacement
small little fair value got
here rolls down into the fairway you got
here and then once again
you're turning back up into an imbalance
then runs down to the low end of the
thereby you got
turning basically at the low of the
session at
the low end of the fair value got
at one o'clock so closure of lunch
time hour
it creates that low
right here is the two minute chart
and this is the fair value gap i drew
your attention to live
and it came down into it here
and
inside this fairbank app is of basically
drawing your attention to that as a
potential long i did and i was looking
for a run into 3805
and it started the run took out the buy
side here i mentioned the bicep would
likely be a draw on liquidity it was
but i wanted to see it draw up to here
that's the specific level i was looking
for
and if the market comes back down into
the fairbank up again once more
and then rallies above the short-term
high here this right here would have
been a nice opportunity for me to
basically say pay the trader and me take
something after i tweeted that off
but i didn't because i wanted this level
here okay
now one could argue and say oh you're
being greedy or you didn't follow rules
or you didn't do this and you didn't do
that and it's easy to arm chair
quarterback someone
and that's okay if you want to do that
in the comment section that's fine but
just know that i'm doing this
real time
and i'm okay with being wrong wrong
isn't going to ruin me um
i'm not 100
but i'm generally
on par
better than the average bear okay
we'll just say it that way without
sounding like i'm bragging
but once it
came back down in it stopped me out
because i rolled my stop up to a level
that i wasn't willing to
weather a deeper retracement because
this is the takeaway
very valuable
we trade down into it we get
movement that's good comes back down and
again complete closure of the fair value
gap okay that's acceptable
does it start to rally away yes that's
why i felt confident that it was going
to go up to here
because if it's going to go above here
then it should just spread its wings and
run that 3805 level with no problem
it wasn't having it
the market dropped back down
and didn't quite take out this
short-term load with any displacement so
while this fair value gap exists
it's not one that i would have taken
because we didn't see a displacement
with meaningful
movement below that low so this is not a
fair gap that i would have been a
participant in
so
looking at that i'm thinking i'm not
interested i'm going to close up shop
and there it is because i didn't get
this run below here now
had i seen that i may have i'm not going
to go out on a limb and say absolutely
but i may have if it would have shown
like this type of movement on this
candle below that low and then we move
back up into this right here then i
probably would have said well i'm gonna
go short and aim for this low here
and then at noon if i didn't get here i
would just close it off
and then
ride out the the lunch hour so that was
kind of like what was going on in my
head
because it was an event around pal i
didn't want to give you guys a lot of
things to be concerned about or get lost
in the commentary and plus i didn't want
to be worrying about
someone doing something hurting
themselves i knew invariably some of you
are
waiting there with a live account ready
to click a button because i've said
something okay so that weighs heavily on
me
when i comment on twitter so
i just want you to be careful okay do it
in a demo don't do it a live account
but we had another fair value gap in
here it trades up into that nice closure
perfectly and runs down to the top of
the fair value gap on that 15 minute
time frame one more little bounce in
then rolls over and goes deeper into the
fair value cap
all right here is the afternoon session
and this is where we're gonna be doing
the bulk of the discussion on the
reading course in this video
and i'll frame the logic around
risk management and stop loss management
and that'll complete the model the roles
i'm going to give you are static they
they're always the same so that way you
know
once you put a position on your demo
account where is your stop how much are
you risking
when do you move your stop
okay and this is the rule that i use and
sometimes
um you've seen me
show
trades where i get in and i'm not really
trying to move my stop-loss i'm taking
partials along the way but i'm not
really trying to
rush my stop-loss up
i'm going to show you the rules i follow
so that way it makes sense to you and
it'll help you also
trust taking partials
letting that become a better way of
managing a position in trade
and not be fearful about being stopped
out because the stop loss is there to do
its job you pay it well to do that but
if you're worrying about that stop loss
being tripped versus following along in
price action continuously measuring
whether or not price is giving you what
you're expecting in terms of bullishness
or bearishness is the institutional
order flow still bullish if you're long
or is it still bearish when you're
you know short
those types of things are more important
than worrying about whether you're
getting stopped out or not
that's not to minimize obviously the
the risk that's respected obviously you
should be respecting the risk by
actually putting a hard stop in but if
you don't put a hard stop in you're not
really respecting the risk what you're
saying is is
i'm risking this trade because i believe
i'm right but if i'm wrong i'll figure
out
where i'm wrong when it gets there
you don't want to do that okay so anyway
we'll close that portion of the
discussion at the end of the video but
here it's a two-minute chart showing the
afternoon or pm session for
index futures
and you can see we traded down into
this is showing a weird time because
it's
two minutes but this is the one o'clock
hour it hits the low
and then starts to rally up
short term shift in market structure
here key time of day
130 it trades back down into an order
block last down closed candle there is a
fair value gap
right here
i didn't note it because it's going to
be too cluttered up and i'm going to be
basically doing a lot of discussion in
this area and i don't want it to be
over
lapped with too many things
to me navigating
so this is the 50 minute
fair value gap and it's trading down to
an order block after a shift in market
structure after trading down and closing
in a 15 minute time frame
fair egg gap
and then it trades into an optimal trade
entry which is the flagship pattern of
this youtube channel
fair value gap with an overblock and
optimal trade entry is the
gold standard
of the ict pattern that's taught on this
youtube channel
this is where you can be long
and expect price to reach for
here
and here
okay so we have
objectives in here where we can look for
this imbalance here
bicep liquidity here by side liquidity
here
and we'll watch then see it does it
continuously march higher
so
we have a run from here
to the short term high
then we have this fair value got here
that runs here up into
the 3805 level
so
this pm session i was long in
and i'm
not going to try to build the case to
outline everything because i want to
give you what's salient to close this
mentorship and show you how to use stop
placement risk management
and give you a working example
i know some of you like to see
did i really take a
trade yeah i was trading today so you
can see here a live account
and
1 975
okay
back to the lesson
and you'll see what it means to go
through the process of determining
risk management
and stop
loss placement and when you move your
stop
all right so we're zoomed in here
and looking at the five-minute chart
and again that's the fair value gap
we're going to be using
here the frame it
so if you're looking at the idea of
you trade it down into that very value
gap
does it show willingness to go higher
yes is there a short term shift in
market structure yes
is there a gap yes down close candle to
the left of it yes
drops down in bullish order block
optimal trade entry in other words that
would be a 62 to 70 tracement level less
than equilibrium relative to the high
and the low respectively
so we would be looking for
a limit order
to be at
54 75 we'll use that okay so one quarter
point less than
this candle's low so that would be our
hypothetical limit order to buy
going long
and we use the low here for our stop
loss
so 37 45
0.75
essentially
nine points of risk
okay so we'll come back that in a couple
minutes but for now
what will be reaching for what would be
the draw on liquidity
from this high
down to that low we want to get to a
premium level
50 is about right in here eyeballing it
and we don't need to have a fib on that
you should do it for yourself
but then we have this imbalance here so
the first low hanging fruit objective
would be this candle's high
that's 37 80 and a quarter
so we're looking at about
25 and a half handles
of potential points profit
per contract so we're risking nine
points to make 25 and a half
not bad it's better than two and a half
r
so you're gonna risk
one dollar to make two dollars and fifty
cents basically
and that's on a run from here to here
we don't need to know if it's going to
go up to here yet
okay
this right here is one trade from here
to here
then it creates another opportunity in
here where it can run from here to here
and we'll talk about that when it gets
into the discussion on risk management
and trade management
all right so risk management
anytime you're trying to consider what
lot size or how much you're supposed to
be trading or whatever
there are free tools if you google them
okay it's amazing how many folks ask me
and other educators out there the most
simplest
questions that are answered just by a
google search okay i know
it feels easier i think it's a matter of
just
getting a personal response from the
educator or whoever it is you'd be
asking
and
it's not
possible for me to go through every
single person's question
and reply to them so hopefully you
understand that there's just simply no
way for me to do that i don't have
enough time in the day to do that nobody
really does
but simple things like
lot size calculators okay you can do a
google search on that and there are some
wonderful free applications and tools
that will make that known to you
by you just plugging in how much money
you have in your account
what risk percentage are you trying to
use
what size stop-loss are you going to use
and it'll tell you
how much
leverage if you're trading forex or you
know what your
lot size should be for futures
now
i understand that's probably not the
response that you want because you want
to have a interactive experience with
your educator or mentor but these are
really basic types of things that could
be learned and understood and found the
solution to by
simply doing a little bit of the legwork
yourself
with that said i'm going to give you one
example here and just kind of like walk
it out for you
assuming you had ten thousand dollars in
your trading index futures
and you are using this trade idea that
i'm outlining here that i was monitoring
in the afternoon session
ten thousand dollars is equity you want
to take
one percent risk
per trade
so you're gonna take that ten thousand
dollars
times it by point zero one that's going
to give you a figure of one hundred
that's one hundred dollars that's what
one percent of ten thousand dollars is
that means that's the total amount of
risk that you're willing to assume
we determined from the hypothetical
entry of your demo account at 37.54 and
three quarters and a stop at
45 and three quarters that's nine points
or nine handles okay
that's what that nine is
so we're taking the dollar amount
which is the one percent of our equity
giving us hundred dollars or one percent
of ten thousand dollars
total movement that we're willing to
absorb as a risk or a stop loss
is nine points
so we take nine divide that into one
hundred that gives us eleven
okay 11
times
we can get
the figure 9.
that 11
if we're going to trade a
mini
or e-mini futures contract on the s p
the multiplier per contract is 50 bucks
so divide 50 into 11. you can't so you
right away you know you can't trade a
mini if you're gonna be risking one
percent
so you have to drop down into the micros
so now we have 11 with a multiple of
five so micro lot
on e-mini micro instead of fifty dollars
per point
it's five dollars per point
so how many
fives can you go into 11 with it
two so you can do two micro lots
now this might not be for you because
when i do risk management
i don't really factor in commissions
i'll just do the math like this so you
might look at that and say well what
about commissions that might not allow
me to do one percent if you're going to
be very hard-lined about the risk
management and i get it some of you
should be like that in the beginning
but as you get more experience you'll
start thinking oh you know the covered
costs of
commissions and such
over time it's fine i'll work that out
but for risk management just for the
entry to stop loss not factoring
commission costs and fees with your
broker
or spread okay all those ideas
need to be considered
but we're going to assume that they're
not going to be considered for this
example you have to figure that out on
your own if that's how you're going to
do your risk management but for me
i don't ever factor in the cost because
costs are always going to be they're
like taxes you can't avoid them
so just you eat it okay
so
you can do two micro lots
at five dollars per
point
making profit or taking in drawdown or
loss
per point fluctuation
so if we're buying at 37.54 in three
quarters
and we're risking nine
points
how much money is that
ninety dollars risk so we're under
one percent
so we're not even risking a full one
percent
our target is 25 and a half points
or 255 dollars because two micro
at five dollars at the multiplier of
each point
two times five is ten so you're making
10 dollars per point
because you're holding 2 micros
so 25 and a half points here at 10
total multiplier
based on the two micro lots
which would be
basically two and a quarter percent
return
so you're gonna risk one percent to make
two and a quarter percent on one
intraday scalp
here
and then you have another one here
and if you were trying to do shorts over
here you could have done something
equivalent to that as well
so it's not hard to make
one to three to five percent in one day
with intraday
price swings
the problem is
you're going to get over excited and
think that you can do every single
fluctuation in price action
and
these types of movements while they're
exciting when you do the math on them
and you see the potential
a lot of times people say well one
percent i can't make money with one
percent
man you can make a lot of money with one
percent okay
if you if you can make one percent a day
that's enormous because that compounds
over time
and it's not a matter of saying well
if i make one percent a day and i do
that monday through friday that means i
need five percent of the end of the week
or
20 for the month
correct that's what most of you are
probably thinking right now
when in fact you're actually
able to get 22 a month because of the
effects of compounding if you do one
percent per day
trading monday through friday four weeks
average per month
one could make 22 percent a month now 22
percent a month is phenomenal like
that's ridiculous rates of return
professional money managers and fund
managers don't try to do that for a
whole year
some of them do anywhere between
12 to 15 percent a year and they call
that an ex stellar year
and if they make 20 or more you know
that's a blockbuster year
and their parade around in front of
their clients thing
exceed that type of return and bolster
their confidence to put more money in
that's usually when they'll say hey you
want to allocate more money
because they get paid to do that
well one percent
is in my opinion obviously you know it's
not going to be the case for a new
student or a new trader but my opinion
one percent every single day
is unrealistic
but for a seasoned trader
one percent average per day is
really easy
but you're gonna have to get the
experience to do that
and again that also
equates to the average of one percent so
in other words if i have one trade a
week and i make five percent that's
equivalent to one percent a day
for the week i'm not going to sit in
front of the charts
to try to make one percent each day it's
it's not reasonable for me i have things
i have to take care of i have businesses
to run and family to tend to
and i can find setups that
i can frame and make you know five
percent on one set up or first partial
of a trade
so
it's a matter how you're gonna form fit
this for yourself okay and obviously the
best scenario would be if you're going
to be eventually getting to the point
where you can risk two percent you can
do this framework for one limit order to
be buying at 37 54 and three quarters
use to stop as explained here
and do a second order the same way but
don't use this as your profit objective
use this short term high here
or the target i was outlining 3805
and a half
and then you would be able to get
a run from here to here on one that
would close out
and then the second one would hopefully
run up in here and get the daily range
and you can do obviously better than
you need two and a quarter percent just
on this one
you'd have
two and a quarter
twice because the one that you bought
down i'm sorry the one you bought here
they got out here
that's your banked two and a quarter
percent hypothetically then the second
one would be running here and then
rolling through that level up to here so
you could be making as much as
four and a half percent more on the
second position so what are you really
making
six and three quarter percent
one day
two orders one trade
and a lot of you guys are trying to do
those funded account challenges
and they give you like you got to make
to do this and that
if you learn how to trade and you learn
what i'm teaching you folks listen
those numbers are achievable
but you have to know what you're doing
and also how to weather drawdown
drawdown
would be
having your account
reduced from either its starting balance
or after you've made equity increases
you start taking losses that's drawdown
well that drawdown has to be managed so
if you have a trade
and for instance say you took this
hypothetical trade here with one
order and you got in at that 37 54 and
three quarters and you got stopped out
down here okay you would have taken
less than one percent loss
so
your next trade
you should do half of one percent
why because number one you have emotions
psychological impact of taking a loss
you're going to be most likely wanting
to have revenge
and you're probably going to want to do
more leverage than you should
and you're probably going to want to get
it faster than you should in other words
being patient is not going to be the
right thing for you you're going to feel
like
impatience is
eating at you so therefore you have to
get right back in there and try to get
your money back and that is a loser's
cycle
gambler's mentality
so by reducing the risk on your next
trade once you take a loss
then you have to
make back fifty percent
of what you lost so in this case if you
would have got stopped down here we'll
just round it to a hundred dollars with
commission
you have to make fifty dollars
back
before you can go back to your full one
percent risk
and that's it's easy that's easy to do
it's not easy to follow this logic so
what happens if you take that second
trade and risking a half of one percent
and that trade gets knocked out to a
loss
what size you use on your next trade one
quarter of one percent
and that's obviously the lowest you can
go with so
you have to determine what your risk is
and it's going to obviously reduce the
number of trades you can take
that's why i tell everyone
you know there's a lot of you out here
that are starting on a shoestring
meaning you don't have a lot of money
and you're trying to speculate with live
funds with a fifty dollar account
or a hundred dollar account and i get it
i understand it's hard if you don't come
for money if you don't have
the resources where you are you know
globally
it feels like you're out of reach
learn the skill set
okay i promise you if you learn the
skill set
you can do funded account type things as
a venture or find partners that'll come
in with you you don't need the money it
doesn't have to be your money you can
make a lot of money with other people's
money but funded accounts provide a way
for you to go in with a very small
amount of money
and you learn the skills that i'm laying
down here in public
you can walk right into anyone's funded
account challenges okay if you want to
call it a challenge
and just walk right through it and take
it over and then secure whatever size
account you're trying to go for
and then trade it
soberly
you aim for 10 a month 15 a month
and just make that and stop
don't try to push it don't try to get
rich real quick you want that 10 to 15 a
month
coming into your hands after the split
that you do with whatever that account
is
when you're registered with whatever
funded account company that's helping
you
find the scratch to get started
but knowing how to manage that drawdown
will keep you from going into obviously
blowing your account it'll control the
equity drawdown it won't be a sharp
jagged
falling off a cliff it'll be you run up
to new equity highs and you have a
losing trade which is reasonable
everybody has a losing trade you might
have a series of losing trades but if
you take a one percent loss and then you
take another loss at half of one percent
you take another loss at a quarter of
one percent
you're only down one and three quarters
percent
that's not a lot of drawdown
but you've now taken three losing
consecutive trades
that's easy to come back from
versus
taking one percent loss
then saying okay i'm gonna double up and
try to make it back with two percent
risk because i don't have to
just get half the position movement i
took as a loss
and then you take a full two percent
loss now you're down three percent on
two trades then you go and again
thinking well i'm gonna do it again with
two percent or worse you go higher
risking three percent or four percent
and then you don't use a stop or you
move your stop opening it up with more
risk and then suddenly it's very easy to
fall into ten percent draw down
and then it becomes a psychological
wrestling match
where now you feel embarrassed you're
shamed
you feel like you
have to have it back otherwise
you're a failure
when professional money managers
they don't care about being in drawdown
they care about managing their
expectations and the discipline that's
required to operate and engage they are
not allowed to touch their account when
they're highly charged or emotional
so that's all part of risk management
it's not just the numbers game it's a
psychological game too but you have to
manage that and
quell that whole desire to get right
back to where you were before you took
that loss
that feeling comes
because you are an infant in this
industry
and that's not a knock against you okay
it's the truth if you were working with
me one-on-one and i was standing in the
same room with you i would say it to
your face you're an infant if you think
like that
it's infantile to think that way
it's not a rude comment it's the facts
because you want to get your toy that
was taken from you back right away
and you don't need it back right away
when you have a loss or if you go
through drawdown the professional money
management views it as it's a loan that
you're going to collect interest on
when a bank lends out money is it crying
about how it had to give out your
down payment for
a home
or your boat loan
or some other purchase that you
made a loan with them with are you are
they upset about giving you that big
lump of money no
no
are they expecting to get it back right
away no
no in fact
they don't want you to take it and pay
it off real quick
because that's their business model they
want to lend out the money and get as
much interest as possible so
while we don't want to leave drawdown in
long periods out there we look at or at
least i look at when i take a loss if i
go into drawdown it's just alone i know
i know i'm going to get interest on it
because my career isn't going to be
framed by
the last five trades
or the last five weeks or the last five
months or last five years
i have a
long-term view
and that's the problem with being an
infant in this industry
it's too easy for you to want to quit
because you don't see
past
what's happened to you right now
or what happened to you last week or the
last trade and that last trade that one
singular event
you've made such a monumental experience
out of
and it's make it or break it every
single trade is a make it or break it
i've read two people one on twitter and
one on the comment section of the videos
i have
and they're basically saying yeah i
think i'm
packing in i can't do this
and if that's true congratulations you
you found where your breaking point is
and you're not willing to go any further
into that and if you know yourself well
godspeed
but there's a lot of folks
that get frustrated and if you're going
to quit you're not going to post it on
the internet
you're not okay
i believe these individuals that do that
they just want to be encouraged like
don't don't stop me that's it's a cry
for help
because honestly
if i would have had that
as a medium when i was coming up
i would have went on the internet and
said help
i'm gonna quit somebody stopped me from
quitting i'm gonna walk out the door
it's kind of like a relationship when
your lady wants to leave she's like i'm
leaving you and she really doesn't want
to leave she just wants to see what your
reaction is going to be
as you see her walking towards the door
or grabbing a couple things of her
clothing if she's going to leave
she ain't telling you you're going to
come home and her stuff is gone
and if you're going to quit this
industry you're not going to talk about
it you just ain't going to be here
anymore
so again roll your sleeves up just
understand this is what it's like to be
a trader
you're going to be in periods where it's
very difficult
and no matter what you do what you
follow what i taught you what somebody
else taught you whatever worked in the
past you are going to encounter losing
trades plural
you're going to do it wrong you're going
to have an expectation in the
marketplace it isn't going to pan out
like you thought guess what that means
you may take a monetary
loss
and that's a tax on success
you have to pay it
nobody gets around that nobody gets
around it and some of you in here for
whatever reason think that you're going
to stroll right on in here
because you're going to be the exception
to the rule and guess what folks i'm
promising you
you aren't that special
if i wasn't that special nobody's
exempt from it
you all
we all
every single speculator has to pay their
toll and occasionally guess what
the ferryman's got his bony hand holding
out
waiting for you to drop whatever the
next sacrifice of your losing trades
gonna be and you have control
of how bad that's going to be
you limit it
but you have to do the math
and stick to it otherwise if you trade
willy-nilly
whatever happens i don't really use a
hard stop but i know when i want to get
out i hate hearing traders say that
that's so
disappointing to hear because really
what that is communicating is you really
don't have it together
if you don't know where to place a stop
loss
you really don't know what you're doing
you don't
so with this model i've removed that
guess
that
mystery
your hard stop needs to be placed period
if it gets hit it's done you a favor
period
but if it does you that favor of
protecting and limiting risk it's your
job
as the trader to listen to the analyst
next trade it provides
you'll have to manage the trade with
less risk
because you have a task now you have to
come out of drawdown
no matter what the drawdown is you have
to come back incrementally so let's
assume you do a two percent risk trade
and you lose the full two percent
your next trade you could only risk one
percent and it would be basically what
i'm showing you here with one contract
or one limit order
not contract it would be
the equivalent of if you're doing two
percent you would be doing basically
four micro lots
entering at 37 54 and three quarters
hypothetical entry on the demo and your
stop loss at 37 45 and three quarters
nine points risk across four micro lots
twenty dollars per point
okay so
if you take that full loss at two
percent
your next trade you can only do what's
being shown here
one percent risk and you've got to
determine where is your trade
defined
in terms of points or pips if it's 4x
how much of a stop loss do you need in
this case we're using this factor here
okay nine that's the number of points
that's required for the stop for this
particular trade not every trade is
going to require a static nine point
stop sometimes you can do a stop
you know with five points
it's hard i'm not suggesting that you
should be trying to do that but other
trades are going to require you to do
what
more than nine
might be 10 might be 12 points
so you have to consider what that's
going to do for you in terms of risk
management
and eventually
you may get to the point where you lose
so much in drawdown that you really
can't technically do
one micro
even if you have the margin to cover it
so that's why it's important for you to
be very diligent about managing your
risk
and controlling drawdown don't think oh
well you know i'm gonna start off with
one percent and then once you make a
trade and it's easy
think well i can do three percent
because if i can do three percent risk
and i get a multiple
of five r
hmm
i can make 15
one trade and what if i do that every
day
even better
what if i do that in the morning session
and in the afternoon and if i can do
that why not lose sleep and trade london
too
well that's 45 in one day good grief i
could probably quit my job next sunday
i did that kind of stuff folks
it doesn't work like that
doesn't work like that at all
so you have to use low threshold
objectives
and work your way up from that your
career is not going to be 10 trades and
you made it
no
longevity
controlled risk impeccable risk
management
that's how you get here that's how you
arrive at consistently profitable and
losing trades don't mean anything
despite anybody watching you if you do
it publicly a losing trade is nothing
but a tax on success that's it
all right stop management this is going
to close the mentorship
in terms of the teachings and past this
video i'll be doing obviously reviews
and topical studies when i feel led to
do so but as far as the model itself and
the mentorship okay for youtube this
free
series i did
this is done and you'll have everything
that you need here every i'm confident
in saying that what has been
provided to you after this discussion
here
you have enough
and obviously the things i taught you on
youtube channel and other lessons and
maybe other future lessons i make do
they'll just be amplifications and help
you refine what this has already given
you freely
but stop management okay when you place
your stop loss down here when can you
and when do i move my stop-loss well you
have to determine where you're getting
in at
and where you're trying to get as a
target so that's your range from 37 54
and three-quarters to 37 80 and a
quarter so technically 25 and a half
points
okay so
what is that 12 and three quarters
points something like that let's round
it to 12 and a half points
if we see price move 12 and a half half
points above the entry point that you
entered at if it moves twelve and a half
points your stop loss can move 25
percent
up
from where what's 25 of what range
where your stop loss is and your entry
so split that range in terms of points
if this goes up 12 and a half points
which would be 50
of the expected range
then
your stop loss can be reduced or trimmed
down to
so it's going to give you that little
bit of a cookie that feel good moment
you trimmed some of the risk
you're not jamming it up up above to
break even because you're going to worry
about it
you're just moving a little bit
now when price moves to 75 percent of
the expected targeted range and it means
from your entry to here if it moves 75
of that then the stop goes to break even
period
there's your systematic movement of your
stop-loss
you're not jamming it to break even
you're not gonna be worried about
getting stopped out you're gonna be more
likely to be watching does it still keep
reaching for your objective
do down closed candles keep supporting
price does it run below short-term loan
and run higher with a lot of energy
because it took
short-term sales stops out
is it dropping down to a fair value gap
and re-accumulating and sending another
higher price leg higher
that's what you're watching that's the
things that you're looking for and as
long as it's doing those things
collectively or individually you are one
side
that means you're on the right side of
the market and keep holding for your
position to hit target
if you are doing multiple positions say
you're doing competition level leverage
and for me that's anywhere between the
range of
three percent to four and a half percent
then you're going to be looking to take
partials okay and that partial might be
you know once it goes 20 points in your
favor you have a static number it always
hits 15 or 20.
once it does that you no matter what
you're doing you take something off
okay that's something you might want to
incorporate in your own trading model as
well but that part is for you to
determine don't let me give you static
rules that
are considered
you know cast in stone ironclad can't
change it you know i hate doing it with
my students because it takes away the
uniqueness the individualism that you're
bringing as the trader to your own model
so these are just
basic foundational points that i think
will serve you well
but you're going to obviously evolve and
come up with better ways that meet
your expectations and also
fit your personality okay
so i think that's going to be it and i
absolutely want to congratulate all of
you that if you've gone through every
single one of these videos if you've
done the work and back testing and
looking at things and studying and
you're convinced that the pattern's
really there
kudos to you okay
for those that have not got it yet
my encouragement is for you to keep
doing it
and i promise it won't take you long
in fact if you just started and you just
found this channel
i promise you if you give it six months
you'll see things that you never saw
before but at the end of one full year
because it might take some of you to do
that
you'll have it you'll understand what
you're looking for
doesn't mean you're going to be trading
every single day it doesn't mean you're
going to know the bias every single day
doesn't mean you're not going to have
losing trades it means that you're going
to know what you're doing and even
though you may have short term hardships
with being stopped out or missing moves
or reading it wrong
you still will have enough faith in this
model because you know it will repeat in
the future more times than it fails
and i'm challenging you to determine
whether that statement is true or not
until next time
good luck and good trade